In the previous video, you saw how to add
an image to our layout using an image
view widget. Now we discussed so
constraints briefly and learnt that
they're like glue that keeps the widget
fixed in place in our layouts. Now we've
also seen how to delete constraints but
they haven't yet had a go at creating
them instead I left you experimenting
with the resizing handles that's these
four handles here that can be used to do
just that to resize a widget and
obviously there on each corner of a
widget that is showing in our display.
Now there's a reason for doing that
which is that constraining a widget when
it feels the layout can be very fiddly
it is possible but isn't the easiest way
to see how to create constraints for the
first time. Now I actually left my widget
sitting in the top left-hand corner of
the screen so I resized it down. Now if
you've been experimenting and hopefully
you have then yours could be all over
the place so before we start resize it
so it's right about the same size as
mine on screen here now you can also
click on the image and hold the mouse
button to drag it around the screen so
I'm going to do that now I'm gonna drag
it around to the middle of the screen
and as I start doing that we start
getting these vertical and horizontal
lines appearing again look at the
vertical one there then I'll move it
down we get the horizontal appearing as
well though those indicate wind
constraints will be set automatically
and they're appearing because we've got
Auto connect turned on which we talked
about in previous video, so if I release
the mouse pointer now, when it's centered
all four constraints should be created
again and you can see that's happened
we've got the constraints showing for
the image view now. Alright, now we saw
two ways
previously to delete individual
constraints but there's also two other
ways to delete constraints. Now the first
way is to hover the mouse over the
widget so I'm going to do that now and
noticing that when I did that we get
this little button that appears next to
the widget, now if I hover over that we
can see that the tooltip tells us delete
constraints there are only appears when
we first selected the widget so you
might need to select the widget that you
want to delete the constraints off and
obviously by the tooltip it's going to
delete the constraint, so I'm going to
click on that and you can see that all
four constraints got deleted.
Now at this point our image hasn't got
any constraints and it still looks like
it's centered on the screen but keep in
mind that it's not actually fixed in
place if we run the app now the widget
would effectively fall off the screen
except it doesn't really fall off it
goes to the top left-hand corner so
let's actually try running it to see and
confirm that that is the case now we saw
how to run our apps in an emulator in
section two you want to click on this
green arrow in the Android studio
toolbar now I've already got my Android
emulator running but if not you should
be able to select from your list of
developer devices if yours isn't started
and it will start it automatically
alternatively you can come back up here
and click on this icon which I can't do
now because I've got this pop-up showing
and select your emulator and run it my
case mine's already connected and
running so I'm going to click on OK and
we'll just tap over to see that all
right so you can see the app started and
there's the image in the top left-hand
corner of the display so that shows the
importance of using constraints to make
sure that the widget stays where you
want it to. Now any widget that's not
constrained vertically will move to the
top of the screen in addition if a
widget isn't constrained horizontally
it'll move to the left-hand edge no apps
we have been constrained our widget at
all you can see that it's appearing at
the top on the left-hand edge. Alright,
so let's go back to Android studio what
we're going to do now is create some
constraints. Now the way to do that is to
click on the constraint handle that's
these circles on the left or one the
edges of our widget then drag it out to
where you want to constrain the widget
to, now at the moment we don't have a lot
of choice because you've only got the
one widget on the screen the only thing
we can really do at this point is to
constrain the widget to the edges of the
screen so we're going to drag each
constraint handle to the corresponding
edge of the screen. Now when I start with
the left hand side and drag that over
you can see that automatically the image
is moved to the left hand side and we've
no kind of constraint when I release the
mouse button showing in the blueprint
and the designer but also up here you
can see that we've got two constraint
here on the left hand side.
Now don't worry about the fact that the
widgets moved across to the left there's
no need to keep sort of trying to keep
it central or anything like that that's
what the constraints are for and when I
come over here now it comes constrain
the widget to the right-hand side to the
edge you can see it now it goes over and
centers horizontally it goes back to the
middle in other words all right so at
this point now our image is constrained
horizontally so if we rerun the app and
have a look and see what it's done in
the emulator we can see that it's now
constrained horizontally and it's nicely
in the middle but there's no vertical
constraints on our image view at the
moment so it's still appearing at the
top of the screen but we can see that we
have got the horizontal alignment right.
Alright, time for a mini challenge
create the vertical constraints to fix
the image to the center of the screen
and then run the app again to make sure
that they've worked. Alright so pause
the video, now complete that to challenge
and come back and we'll go through the solution.
Alright, so hopefully managed to get
that working so to create the vertical
constraints really all we need to do is
just drag the constraint handle from the
middle of the top edge of the image up
to the top edge of the display so I'll
do that first and you can see that we're
now constrained at the top then widget
moved up to the top accordingly but now
if we constrain the bottom you can see
now that effectively we're centered
horizontally and vertically and just to
confirm that we're going to run this on
our app our emulator run the app and our
emulator and we can see that the image
view is now centered both vertically and
horizontally so that's what constraints
are for, they fix the position of your
widgets. Now you can fix the widget
either relative to the edges of the
screen like we've done here or relative
to other widgets. Now we'll be seeing how
to start working with other widgets
later where we start adding more widgets
to the layout. Alright so I mentioned
that there's two other ways to delete
constraints the first way that I showed
you was to use the delete constraints
button on an image view or on a widget
itself which we did previously in this
video. Now there's a similar looking
button on the toolbar and that will
delete all constraints for all widgets
in the layout, so come over here and just
to hover over that one this is one here
you can see that the tooltip has come up
a clear or constraints, now
as we've only got a single widget it'll
do the same as the other button but if
we had a load of widgets on this layout
it would delete the constraints for all
of them.
Now I want to delete all their
constraints so they can show you
something else but before I click that
button I want you to have a look at the
inspector over the right-hand side and I
need to just click on this to hide the
emulator over here in the top right hand
corner so it shows the four constraints
we've set and it also shows the margins
for each one now at the moment all the
margins are set to 8, although on
the Mac I think when I first created
these these constraints at the start of
this video it was showing a zero seems
to be a bit of a bug so hopefully that
will be fixed soon but the default
margin was determined by this other
button over here on the toolbar you can
see there that the tooltip pls default
margins and you can see that the current value
is set to eight so that's the value
that's used when you are creating
constraints so what I'm going to do now
is come over here and use the clear all
constraints button click on that to
remove all the constraints for all
widgets on our layout and then I'm going
to change the default margin from eight
we click on that and I can either type
in sixteen there or I can just click on
16 because it's a commonly used number,
either way we want to change that now to
sixteen which is showing and now when I
go ahead and recreate the constraints
they'll all have a margin of sixteen
let's just go ahead and do that they
will just have a bit of a discussion
about what margins are but you can see
as I'm doing this now, the margin is
being set to 16 for each of our
constraints. Alright so there's our four
constraints. Alright so these margins
are important when creating layouts so
what actually are they? Well think of
them as an area around the outside of a
widget just like margins on a sheet of
paper. Now what we're going to do first
is change the layout width and layout
height on the widget so that it's 200 DP
square. Now we've seen how to resize a
widget by dragging the handles on the
four corners but if you want a specific
size, it's usually easy to just type the
size into the properties pane on the
right below the inspectors and that's
just here, let's change that to make that
exactly 200, you can see that the image
changed when I did that the size changed
and same for the layout and that's going
to press tab or something to move away
and you can see that that's changed so
whenever you type any takes effect once
your cursor or once you're once you've
moved outside of that field so the space
that the widget now occupies on the
screen is 232, so the widget itself is
200 and there's an additional 16 on each
side making 232 in total I'm going to
talk about these DP units in a moment or
probably in the next video. Alright so
at this point we're seeing this image as
it would appear on a nexus 4 device
which has a screen width of 768.
Now looking at the blueprint our image is
obviously a lot more than 16 from the
left edge, in fact if you look carefully
you can see the 16 there then there's
all this extra stuff showing in the
middle there so what's actually key
it's centered? Well making sure that the
image view is selected which in my case
it is notice these two sliders in the
object inspector your horizontal bias
and reverse I've got a vertical bios now
they represent a bios which is how far
from the top and left of the screen our
widget appears so it's expressed as a
percentage and you can see there that
it's got a number of fifty by default
that means the widget is half way down
and also half way across because they're
both set to fifty now if we drag the
bottom slider to the left when we do
that the bios decreases and notice that
the image is now moving as well
we're moving all the way over to zero
the bias is set to zero and when it's
set to zero the widgets as far left as
it'll go and now it looks to be about 16
from the edge so in other words the
margin is now only 16 there's no other
bias moving the image to any other lip
position and if we increase the margin
on the left-hand constraint by over
typing the value of 16 they'll come over
here I'll just put just clicked on that
you can see that we can specify several
options after 32 for argument's sake
but we do that you can see that the
actual image view moved because we
increased the margin and because my
version of Android studio was sized up
for video presentation we can actually
see the numbers too clearly but if I
actually just making sure that my mouse
is being I've clicked into that area if
I type in a much larger number like 120
then press enter
you can see it moves the image right
over and although you can't see the
whole number you can see if I'm moving
down my left arrow the number 120 is
showing in there so this confirms that
the margins used to create space around
a widget and forms part of the overall
space occupied by that widget now if we
use the horizontal slider over here to
center the image again. Now you
don't have to be too precise with it or
fight with a mouse because when you get
close to what you want you can actually
fine tune it using the cursor keys you
can see it's set to 45 and I've just
used my cursor key and get it exactly to
50. Now when it's set to 50 the image is
still off to the right but that's
because we've got a wide margin on the
left what's being sent in here though is
the image view plus its margin so if we
change the left margin back to 16 again
we're select it from the drop-down this
time the image is now moved back and
everything says it should be okay so
we're going to come back to constraints
a little bit later by the way in case
you hadn't guessed that's why this is
called the constraint layout now what
I'm going to do is finish this video by
leaving you to experiment with the scale
type property and that's over here in
the properties pane on the right hand
side scale top as you can see there
we've got a number of different options
here. Now by the way this used to be
called the properties pane but Google
have renamed it to attribute
so you can see the name up there now in
this particular version of Android
studio but I did mention the old name
because you may come across guides and
tutorials in the Android documentation
that uses the old term but I'll try to
remember to call it attributes meaning
forward in these videos.
Now before we experiment with the scale
type attribute, we want to change the
layout width and loud height to 384 by
480, so let's go ahead and do that come
up here and I'm going to type 304
pressed into there and 480 and that
causes the image view widget to fill the
screen allowing for the margins perhaps
and the image is probably centered for
you and it certainly is on the screen so
you can see for me now. Now just in case
it isn't though don't worry because that
positioning is what we're going to be
looking at next probably in the next
video but getting back to scale top
before we finish this video if I click
on the drop down there's actually eight
values we can provide for the scale type
and you can see that they're all listed
there what I've clicked on the drop down
so what I'm going to do now is finish
this video with a mini challenge
so yes it's mini-challenge time the idea
of the challenges in this course by the
way is to help you understand a
particular concept a bit better by
getting you to go into Android studio
and trying to solve a particular problem
or challenge. Now we're going to start
off simply but then as we go through the
course will build on the complexity of
these challenges to really challenge you
and the idea of this is you'll come out
on this course with a better
understanding of Android studio and
Android development so here's the first
challenge. Now just showing you the scale
type that should be it drop down now the
challenge is to experiment with the
eight scale types to work out what they
do you know the one that you don't need
to worry about is metric so if I click
on that don't worry about metrics for
now because you can't really see what
it's doing in the designer but certainly
try the other ones and when you've done
that check your answers by searching
online for image view scale type. Now if
you search results throw up a
developer.android.com site then that
should be the first one that I check
because that's the site of Google's
documentation and should be considered
the definitive word on anything Android
related. Of course there's no reason that
you can't check other sites too if you
want, so that's the challenge see how you
go experiment with the various settings
the scale type to see what they do
and I'll see you in the next video.